# README

\[//\]: \# \(This is a template used for doing the assignment of a course offered in first semester in SUST. It is mainly for the session 2019-20, but can go further. If you like this or want to use, feel free to drop your lines to then author. Thank you.\)

## Guidelines for the Assignment of the course CSE 133

This is a general guideline for the Assignment of the theory course **CSE 133: Structured Programming Language** offered by the department of _Computer Science and Engineering \(CSE\)_ in _Shahjalal University of Science and Technology \(SUST\)_.

### Task

You have to prepare a full question set of final examination of this course with answer. The work should be your own work. A template is provided herewith. You have to edit the template and add your own work.

### Questions

Every question should be generated by yourself. The marks distribution for the questions should be like the following:

| Question Type | Marks/Question | \# of Questions | Question Options | Total Marks |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Very Short Question | 2 | 5 | 8 | 10 |
| Short Question | 5 | 4 | 6 | 20 |
| Broad Question | 10 | 2 | 3 | 20 |
|  |  | Total Marks | 50 |  |

With the above marks distribution, you would create two groups named _Group A_ and _Group B_ where each group would carry 50 marks. So, the **total marks would be 100**.

Please, note the following when setting the questions:

* You can take idea from the example question set given as pdf. These are mainly

  previous year questions for [2017 batch](c-theory-final-question-2017.pdf) and

  [2018 batch](c-theory-final-question-2018.pdf).

* No question should be exactly same from the provided questions.
* All questions should be produced by your own. \*\*If any kind of the similarity

  is found that might impact seriously on your grade as well as on the whole

  semester even it could lead to the whole year suspension.\*\*

* The marking for each question should be logical and it is a part of the

  assignment evaluation.

* The questions should have the variety and should not cover only a short

  portion of the syllabus, rather try to keep question throughout the whole

  syllabus.

* There might be some questions which have straight-forward answer, but the

  questions which have some calculations are more appreciated.

* The more your question involves the thinking process, the more advantages

  you would get.

### Answers

There are two types of questions mainly. 1. Definite Answer/ Only One Valid Answer 2. Multiple Answer/ Different Valid Answer

For the first type of question, you would write _**Answer**_ and for the second type of question, you would write _**Example Answer**_. If there is a logical reasoning or a calculation involved, you should add them with title **Hint** or **Calculation** or whichever is perfect for the case.

### General Instructions

* Use a convenient text editor, GitHub suggests [atom](https://atom.io/).
* Recheck the spelling mistakes.
* Do not change other files except `my-qeustion-set.md`.
* Do your own work creating a new branch. Whenever you would finish your work,

  make a pull request to the `main` branch.

* Feel free to create _Issues_ if you have any query.
* Do not forget to add your Name, Registration Number, Session, Email Id,

  GitHub Username in the corresponding places.

* Do not demolish the formatting. If you could make the _look and feel_ better,

  it is appreciated.

* Do not hesitate to use _HTML codes_ for better formatting.
* Marks could be break down into smaller portion but it is not recommended. On

  other words, you can break down a question into sub-parts, but it is not

  suggested by the course teacher.

#### Course Teacher

**Enamul Hassan**  
Assistant Professor

Room \# 119  
Department of Computer Science and Engineering  
Dr. M. A. Wazed Miah IICT Building  
Shahjalal University of Science and Technology, Sylhet - 3114

_Emails:_  
post2enam@gmail.com \(Course related Purpose\)  
enam-cse@sust.edu \(Rest of the Academic Purpose\)  
enamsustcse@gmail.com \(Personal and/or Research related Purpose\)  
_Cell:_ +8801914961632  
[See the Faculty Profile for more](https://www.sust.edu/d/cse/faculty-profile-detail/590)

© 2020 EH, CSE, SUST

