# 2019331002

Name: **Mainul Hasan Mohsin**  
Registration \# **2019331002**  
Session: _2019-20_  
GitHub Username: _mainul3195_  
Cell: _01521565271_  
Email: _mainulhasan20000@gmail.com_

## Question Set with Answers

  
    \#marking {  
        display: flex;  
        margin: 0;  
        padding: 0;  
    }  
    .alignleft {  
        flex: 1;  
        text-align: left;  
    }  
    .aligncenter {  
        flex: 1;  
        text-align: center;  
    }  
    .alignright {  
        flex: 1;  
        text-align: right;  
    }  
    hr.divider {  
     margin: 0em;  
     border-width: 2px;  
     background-color: black;  
    }  
  
    p {  
     margin: 0;  
     padding: 0;  
    }  
   Shahjalal University of Science and Technology  
 Department of Computer Science and Engineering  
 1st Year 1st Semester Final Examination — June 2020 \(Session 2019-20\)  
 Course No. — **CSE 133**  
 Course Title — **Structured Programming Language** Time — **3 Hours** Credit: **3.00** Total Marks \# **100**

 \(Answer All the Questions\)  
 **Group A** 1. Answer the following Questions in short. \(Any **Five**\). 5 × 2 = 10

\(a\) _Write the output of the following program._

```c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    int i;
    printf("%d", printf("Hello World!\n")? i=5? i=1: i=2 : i=0);
    return 0;
}
```

**Answer**  
The output of the program is:

```c
Hello World!
1
```

\(b\) _Suppose you have an integer four dimentional array `ar`. Write the statement to print the value of the element ar\[4\]\[3\]\[2\]\[1\].  
\[Do not use array subscript\]_  
**Answer**

```c
printf("%d\n", *(*(*(*(ar+4)+3)+2)+1));
```

\(c\) _What is the output of the following program?_

```c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    int a=-3;
    printf("%d\n", a>>3);
    return 0;
}
```

**Answer**  
The output is `-1`.

\(d\) _What is the minimum number of extra variable needed to exchange the value of two different variable? Write the method._  
**Answer**  
No extra variable needed to exchange the value of two different variables. We will use XOR\(^\) operation in this purpose. The method is given below:

```c
int a=4;
int b=5;
a ^= b^= a^= b;
```

\(e\) _Write a code that prints the following pattern._

```c
      *
     **
    ***
   ****
  *****
 ******
*******
```

**Answer**

```c
#include<stdio.h>              
int main()
{
  for(int i=1; i<8; i++)
  {
    for(int j=0; j<7-i; j++)
      printf(" ");
    for(int j=0; j<i; j++)
      printf("*");
    printf("\n");
  }
  return 0;
}
```

\(f\) _What is the output of the following code?_

```c
#include<stdio.h>
#define ans 5
int main()      
{
  printf("ans = %d", ans);
  return 0;
}
```

**Answer**  
the output is `ans = 5`.

\(g\) _What is symbolic constant? Write the method of writing symbolic constant._  
**Answer**  
A symbolic constant is a name that substitutes for a sequence of characters.  
A symbloci constant is defined by writing

```c
#define name text
```

Whenever in the program name is appeared, it is substituted by text.

\(h\)_What does the following statement print?_

```c
printf("%s", "\101");
```

**Answer**  
The output of the statement is `A` .

 2. Answer the following Questions. \(Any **Four**\). 4 × 5 = 20

\(a\)_Write and explain the output of the following program. Clarify the process of compiling same header file._

```c
#include<stdio.h>
#include<stdio.h>
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    float a,b;
    scanf("%4f %f", &a, &b);// input: 333.141663 4

    printf("%.4f\n", a);
    printf("%.4f\n", b);

    return 0;
}
```

**Answer:**  
The program doesn't give any error. It gives the following output.

```c
333.0000
141663.0000
```

In term of taking input, `%4f` indicates that from the starting of the number, it will take 4 character as `float` datatype. So first 3 digit with radix point is taken as `float` datatype and stored to variable a. For the next `%f`, it will take the integer characters until if finds integer characters and store it in variable b. So, in variable b, number `141663` will store as `float` datatype.  
For output, `%.4f` refers that the desired output is a floating type number and it will print 4 digit after radix point.  
If compiler gets same header file, it simply includes the first one and ignores the later iterations.

\(b\) _Write a function named `ans` that will take an integer array named `array`, two integer `i` and `j`. The function will return an integer array consisting of elements of the main array from index i to j. \[NB. Do not use array subscipt\]_  
**Answer**  
The expected function named ans is given below:

```c
int *ans(int *array, int i, int j)
{
    int *x = (int *)malloc((j-i+1)*sizeof(int));
    for(int k=i; k<=j; k++)
        *(x+k-i)=*(array+k);
    return x;
}
```

\(c\) _Write a function that will find nth fibonacci number without using recursion.\[Here 1st fibonacci number is 0\]_  
**Answer**  
The function for finding nth fibonacci number is given below:

```c
long long fibonacci(int n)        
{
  long long a=0, b=1, c=1;
  for(int i=1; i<n; i++)
  {
    a=b;
    b=c;
    c=a+b;
  }
  return a;
}
```

\(d\) _Write and explain the output of the following program._

```c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    char name[] = "Shahjalal" ;
    printf("%9s\n", name);
    printf("%10s\n", name);
    printf("%9.7s\n", name);
    printf("%.6s\n", name);
    return 0;
}
```

**Answer:**  
The output of the following program is:

```c
Shahjalal
 Shahjalal
  Shahjal
Shahja
```

In this program, we can see the use of `minimum field width` and `precision specification`.

Minimum field width that means the unsigned integer before the decimal point will determined the minimum width of the string. If the string size is greather than the minimum field width, full string will be printed. But if the minimum field width is greather than the string size then some blank spaces before the string will cover the minimum field width. In the second `printf` function, the minimum field width is 10 and string size to be printed is 9. So a `blank space` will be printed before the string.

In format specifier, the unsigned integer after the decimal point is called precision specification. For, string, precision specification determines the maximum number of characters that can be displayed.If the precision specification is less than the total number of characters in the string, the excess right-most characters will not be displayed. This will occur even if the minimum field width is larger than the entire string, resulting in the addition of leading blanks to the truncated string.As a result in fourth printf funciton six character of the string has been printed and in third printf function, seven character is printed with two leading blank spaces.

 3. Answer the following Questions. \(Any **Two**\). 2 × 10 = 20

\(a\)_What is the output of the following program? Explain the output._

```c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    int i=1;
    unsigned int j=0;
    switch(i)
    {
        case 0:
            j++;
        default:
            ++j;
            break;
        case 1:
            j ++ ;
        case 2:
            j-=2;
            break;
        case 3:
            j++;
    }
    printf("%u", j);
    return 0;
}
```

**Answer**  
The output of the program is `4294967295`.

When the switch statement is executed, the `expression` of the switch is evaluated and control is transferred directly to the group of statements whose case-lebel value matches the value of the expression. If none of the case-lebel values matches the value of the expression, then the default group takes control. It is not necessary to place the default group at the end. It can be anywhere. The position of default group does not affect in case-lebel selection. And when any expression matches with any case-lebel or default, the following statements of that group as well as the following groups continues to be executed until a `break` statement is found.

In the given program, `case 1` group takes the control and start to execute to group. At first, variable j is increased by value 1 and value of j becomes `1` as `++` is a post increment operator that increases the value of the varibale by 1 after that statement is executed. As there is no break statement in that group, the following group continues to be executed. In next group, the value is decrease by 2 as `j -= 2` means `j = j - 2`. So the value of j should be `-1`. But variable j is an unsigned integer. We know, the range of an unsigned integer type variable is `0` to `4294967295`. So the value `-1` in any unsigned variable is actually the last value of the limit. So j becomes `4294967295`. Then we encounter a break statement and control transferred out of the switch statement.

\(b\) _Given a linked list \(starting pointer\) and a integer n. Write a function that will delete the last iteration of n._  
**Answer**

```c
#include<stdio.h>

struct node
{
    int value;
    struct node *nxt;
}*start;

int erase(int n)//return 0 if not found
{
    if((start == NULL) or ((start->value != n) and (start->nxt == NULL)))
        return 0;
    struct node *first, *target, *ck, *prev;
    prev =  start;
    ck =  start->nxt;
    int found=0;
    while(ck != NULL)
    {
        if(ck->value==n)
        {
            found=1;
            target = ck;
            first = prev;
        }
        ck = ck->nxt;
        prev = prev->nxt;
    }
    if(found)
    {
        first->nxt = target->nxt;
        return 1;
    }
    return 0;
}
int main()
{
    ...
    ...
    ...

    return 0;
}
```

\(c\) _Write a program that will take ten user information from standard input \(Name, age, registration no and phone number\) and store it in a file named info.txt in the following formating._

```c
01.
Md Khalilur Islam
Age: 26
Phone no: 01*********
Registration No: *******

02.
Sabbir Talukdar
...
...
```

**Answer**

```c
#include<stdio.h>

struct inf
{
    char name[50];
    int age;
    char reg_no[20], mob_no[20];
};
void inp(struct inf *a)
{
    scanf(" %[^\n]", a->name);
    scanf(" %d %s %s ", &(a->age), a->reg_no, a->mob_no);
}
int main()
{
    FILE *fl;
    if((fl=fopen("info.txt", "w+")) == NULL)
        printf("did not open\n");
    struct inf person[10];
    for(int i=0; i<10; i++)
        inp(&person[i]);
    for(int i=0; i<10; i++)
    {
        fprintf(fl, "%02d.\n%s\nAge: %d\nPhone no: %s\nRegistration No: %s\n\n", i+1, person[i].name, person[i].age, person[i].mob_no, person[i].reg_no);
    }
    fclose(fl);
    return 0;
}
```

 **Group B** 1. Answer the following Questions in short. \(Any **Five**\). 5 × 2 = 10

\(a\) _What’s the difference between using &lt; &gt; and " " for including the header file?_  
**Answer**  
When we use an angular bracket \(`<>`\) for including header file, compiler searches for that header file in built-in include path. On the other hand, when we use double quotation \(`""`\) in header file, at first compiler searches for the header file in working directory. If not found then it searches in build-in include path.

\(b\) _What is the difference between the two following declarations?  
i. int \`_x\[10\]`ii. int`\(_x\)\[10\]\`_  
**Answer**  
In the first declaration, we have an array of pointers of int type of size 10. That means now we can allocate our desired memories to form arrays of integers whose beginning memory address will be these pointers.  
In the second declaration, there is an integer type array of 10 elements and x represents the first address of the entire group. That means now we don't have to allocate any memory for our array. It is predefined and it's size is 10, where in the previous declaration, we could allocate the memory of our desired size by out own.

\(c\) _What is the output of the following program?_

```c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    int a=-1;
    a>>=31;
    printf("%d", a);
    return 0;
}
```

**Answer**  
The output of the program is `-1` .

\(d\) _What is being declared in the following statement?_

```c
int (*x)(int *);
```

**Answer**  
The statement above declares x as a pointer to a function that takes a single integer pointer argument and return an integer value.

\(e\) _What is the output of the following program?_

```c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    char ar[]= "ok\\\0\\\0";
    printf("%lu", sizeof(ar));
    return 0;
}
```

**Answer**  
The output of the program is `7` .

\(f\) _What is the value of `i` after the following snipped code?_

```c
int f=3;
int h=13;
float i= (float)(h/f);
```

**Answer**  
The value of `i` is 4.000000.

\(g\) _Write a function that takes two integer array and their sizes and returns an array adding the second array after the first one._  
**Answer**

```c
int *conc(int ar1[], int ar2[], int sz1, int sz2)  
{
  int *ans = (int *)malloc((sz1+sz2)*sizeof(int));
  int i=0;
  for(int j=0; j<sz1 ; j++)
    *(ans + i++) = ar1[j];
  for(int j=0; j<sz2 ; j++)
    *(ans + i++) = ar2[j];
  return ans;
}
```

\(h\) _Write a statement using ternary operator what will determine the maximum value of variable a, b and c._  
**Answer**

```c
int maximum = a>b? ((a>c)? a:c): (b>c? b: c);
```

 2. Answer the following Questions. \(Any **Four**\). 4 × 5 = 20

\(a\)_What is assignment suppression? Explain with example._  
**Answer**  
While taking inputs, it is possible to skip over a data item, without assigning it to any varibale. to do so, % sign within the appropriate control group is followed by an asterisk \(\*\). This is called `assignment suppression`.

```c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
  int a, b, c;
  . . . . 
  scanf("%d %*d %d", &a, &b, &c);//input data: 2 3 4
  . . . .
  return 0;
}
```

In the program mentioned above, 2 will be assigned to `a` and 4 will be assigned to `c`. However 3 will not be assigned to `b` because of assignment suppression. The integer quantity 3 will be read into the computer along with the other data items, but will not be assigned to its corresponding variable.  
\(b\) _What is the output of the following snipped program? Explain the output._

```c
unsigned long a;
a=0;
a= ~a;
printf("%lu", a);
```

**Answer**  
The output of the snipped program is `18446744073709551615`  
Explanation:  
We know a long variable by default indicates a long integer variable. Here variable a is defined as unsiged long integer variable. This variable takes 4 bytes of memory which is equivalent to 64 bit. Normally in singed varibale the last bit is stored for signed information. That is, if the last bit \(64th bit\) is 1 then the number represent a negative integer and if the last bit is 0 then the nubmer represent a positive integer.  
Also `~` is called the `bitwise not` operator. It toggles all the bits of a number in binary representation. Means, if any bit is 1, this operator turns it into 0 and if a bit is 0, this operator turns it into 1. At first value zero is assigned in the variable a in that snipped program. So all of the 64 bits in binary representatin becomes zero. When we use bitwise not operation on variable a, all the 64 zeroes turns into 1. So the value of the variable becomes 2^64 - 1 , which is 18446744073709551615 in decimal.

\(c\) _Write an explain the output of the following program_

```c
#include<stdio.h>
int main()
{
    float x=2.5;
    int a= *(int *)&x;
    printf("%d", a);
    return 0;
}
```

**Answer**  
The program outputs a garbage value.

Explanatin:  
`&x` gives the memory address of the variable x. As x is a floating data type, it gives an address which points to a floating variable x. But `(int *)&x` part refers that that address which pointed to a floating variable now points to a integer variable. But we know that `int` variable takes more memory that `float`. So `*(int *)&x` gives the value of the integer value. But, first 8 bits only stores our desired information. extra 24 bits forms a garbage value in the returning value. As a result our output is garbage.

\(d\) _Without using any loop write a C program that will reversely print the numbers devided by 3 in range 1 to 201.  
Expected output:_

```c
201
198
195
.
.
.
6
3
```

**Answer**  
We have to use recursion to write the program. A program for this specific purpose is given bellow.

```c
#include<stdio.h>
void print(int n)
{
  if(n==202)
    return;

  print(n+1);

  if(!(n%3))
    printf("%d\n", n);
}
int main()
{
  print(1);
  return 0;
}
```

 3. Answer the following Questions. \(Any **Two**\). 2 × 10 = 20

\(a\) _Implement the push,pop and top functions of stack for dealing with positive integers numbers._  
**Answer**  
Here is the implementation of stack using structure:

```c
#include<stdio.h>
#include<malloc.h>

struct node
{
    int value;
    struct node *nxt;
};
struct node *start=NULL;
void push(int n)
{
    struct node *temp, *mould = (struct node *)malloc(sizeof(struct node));
    mould->value=n;
    mould->nxt = NULL;
    if(start == NULL)
    {
        start = mould;
        return;
    }
    temp = start;
    while(temp->nxt != NULL)
        temp = temp->nxt;
    temp->nxt = mould;
    return;
}
int pop()
{
    if(start == NULL)
        return -1;//if stack is empty
    if(start -> nxt == NULL)
    {
        int n= start->value;
        start = NULL;
        return n;
    }
    struct node *temp = start, *temp2;
    temp2 = temp->nxt;
    while(temp2->nxt != NULL)
    {
        temp = temp -> nxt;
        temp2 = temp2 -> nxt;
    }
    temp -> nxt = NULL;
    return temp2->value;
}
int top()
{
    if(start == NULL)
        return -1;//if stack is empty
    struct node *temp = start;
    while(temp->nxt != NULL)
        temp = temp -> nxt;
    return temp->value;
}
int main()
{
    ...
    ...
    ...

    return 0;
}
```

\(b\) _Implement the `sqrt` function used to find the square root of any number._  
**Answer**  
We will use binary search for implementing this function. The code is given below:

```c
double sqrt(double n)
{
  double left=0, right=n, mid, MN= 1e-12;
  while(right-left>MN)
  {
    mid=(left+right)/2;
    if(mid*mid<=n)
      left=mid;
    else if(mid*mid>n)
      right=mid;
  }
  return mid;
}
```

\(c\) _Write a function that takes an integer array and the size of the array which sort the array using bubble sort. \[Implement using recursion\]_  
**Answer**

```c
void bubblesort(int array[], int sz)        
{
  if(sz==1)
    return;
  for(int i=0; i<sz-1; i++)
    if(array[i]>array[i+1])
      array[i] ^= array[i+1] ^= array[i] ^= array[i+1];
  bubblesort(array, sz-1);
}
```

 - End -

* \[✓\] I am declaring that, the above work is my own work. Whatever added above

  except the template is the result of my brainstorming. I also understand that

  submitting work that isn’t my own may result in permanent failure of this course

  as well as the whole current semester.

