# 2019331065

Name: **Md. Naimul Haque**  
Registration \# **2019331065**  
Session: _2019-2020_  
GitHub Username: _Naimul-2019331065_  
Cell: _01622403404_  
Email: _nhnahin65@gmail.com_

## Question Set with Answers

  
    \#marking {  
        display: flex;  
        margin: 0;  
        padding: 0;  
    }  
    .alignleft {  
        flex: 1;  
        text-align: left;  
    }  
    .aligncenter {  
        flex: 1;  
        text-align: center;  
    }  
    .alignright {  
        flex: 1;  
        text-align: right;  
    }  
    hr.divider {  
     margin: 0em;  
     border-width: 2px;  
     background-color: black;  
    }  
  
    p {  
     margin: 0;  
     padding: 0;  
    }  
   Shahjalal University of Science and Technology  
 Department of Computer Science and Engineering  
 1st Year 1st Semester Final Examination — June 2020 \(Session 2019-20\)  
 Course No. — **CSE 133**  
 Course Title — **Structured Programming Language** Time — **3 Hours** Credit: **3.00** Total Marks \# **100**

 \(Answer All the Questions\)  
 **Group A** 1. Answer the following Questions in short. \(Any **Five**\). 5 × 2 = 10

\(a\) What are the basic types of constant in c? **Answer:**There are four basic types of constant in c. They are: \(i\) integer constant \(ii\) floating-point constants \(iii\) character constants and \(iv\) string constants\(b\) int x=5, y=6, z=9; z+=\(\(x++==y\) && \(++z==10\)\); y-=\(\(--xAnswer: x=5, y=6, z=8;\(c\) Write the meaning of the given conversion character for Data Input: \(i\) e, \(ii\) h, \(iii\) i, \(iv\) g **Answer:** \(i\) e: Data item is a floating-point value \(ii\) h: Data item is a short integer \(iii\) e: Data item is a decimal, hexadecimal or octal integer \(iv\) g: Data item is a floating-point value\(d\) What is the difference between the constants 573 and “573”? **Answer:** The constant 573 is the integer 123. But the constant “573” is a string containing three characters ‘5’, ‘7’, and ‘3’.\(e\) What is pointer? Which of following declaration is correct? Describe why another one is incorrect? \(i\) int a=4; \(ii\) int a=4, \*p; int \*p=&a; \*p=4; **Answer:** Pointer: A pointer is a variable that represents the location of a data item, such as a variable or an array element. Declaration \(i\) is correct. Declaration \(ii\) is incorrect because of assigning \*p=4. Because it is not allowed to assign an integer value to a pointer variable except 0.\(f\) Showing the calculation find the value of ~0x7ff in terms of 16-bit words. **Answer:** To find ~0x7ff, we should convert 0x7ff to it’s corresponding bit pattern. 07ff= 0000 0111 1111 1111 ~07ff= 1111 1000 0000 0000 = f800 So, ~0x7ff = 0xf800. \(g\) What will be the result of the following program? \[suppose an integer take 4 bytes\] \#include int main\(\) { int a\[\]={2, 15, 1, 8, 9, 10}, \*p, \*q; p=a+1; q=a+3; printf\("%d", q-p\); } \(i\) compilation error \(ii\) 8 \(iii\) 2 \(iv\) -7 **Answer:** \(iii\) 2 \(h\) Write a c program that converts kilometer per hour to meter per second. Example: input: 10 output:2.78 ms^-1 **Example Answer:** \#include int main\(\) { double v; scanf\("%lf", &v\); v=\(v\*1000\)/3600; printf\("%0.2lf ms^-1\n", v\); return 0; }

 2. Answer the following Questions. \(Any **Four**\). 4 × 5 = 20\(a\) Suppose you are given two inputs a string s and an integer x. String s will said to be semi-palindrome if the total mismatches of s does not exceed x. Write a c program to Determine if s is semi-palindrome or not. If s is semi- palindrome, print SEMI-PALINDROME. Otherwise print NOT-SEMI-PALINDROME.\[The length of s is not greater than 100 and there can be several input\] **Example Answer:** The current c program is written below: \#include \#include int main\(\) { int n, i, x, mismatch, m; char s\[100\]; while\(~scanf\("%s %d", s ,&x\)\){ mismatch=0; n=strlen\(s\); m=n/2; for\(i=0; ix\) { printf\("NOT-"\); break; } } } puts\("SEMI-PALINDROME"\); } return 0; } \(b\) What will be the output of the following code and explain it? \#include int main\(\) { int m=45; int n=7; switch\(m%9\) { case 0: m+=3; case 1: m=0; n=0; case 5: m=!n; } printf\("%d", m\); } **Answer:** The output of the above code is 1. Here m=45. In the switch statement 45%9=1. Case 0 is true. So it will be executed. But there is no break statement. That’s why after this all of case until find the break statement will be executed. On case 1, m and n will be zero. On case 5, n=0 so !n=1 and m=!n. That means the new value of m is 1. So the value of m will be printed 1. \(c\) Write a c program to generate a mini calculator which can do addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of two integers and display the result with not more than three digits after decimal point.\[Hint: Use switch statement\] Sample input: 15/6 Sample output: =2.500 **Example Answer:** \#include int main\(\) { double a, b; char c; while\(scanf\("%lf %c %lf", &a, &c, &b\)\){ printf\("="\); switch \(c\) { case '+' : printf\("%.3lf\n", a+b\); break; case '-' : printf\("%.3lf\n", a-b\); break; case '\*' : printf\("%.3lf\n", a\*b\); break; case '/' : printf\("%.3lf\n", a/b\); break; } } return 0; } \(d\) There is a garden with n meter length and m meter width. There is also a road of k meter around the garden. If every square meter of the road will cost t taka to repair, then how much will be for the whole road? To find this generate a c program where n, m, k and t are integer and input quantity. **Example Answer:** \#include int main\(\) { long long n, m, k, t, t\_a, g\_a, r\_a, t\_c; scanf\("%d %d %d %d", &n, &m, &k, &t\); t\_a=\(n+2\*k\)\*\(m+2\*k\); g\_a=n\*m; r\_a=t\_a-g\_a; t\_c=r\_a\*t; printf\("%d\n", t\_c\); return 0; } \(e\) Write a c program to display the following pattern of number. Do not print simply four lines. Use nested loop by generating a formula to display like this pattern. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 **Example Answer:** \#include int main\(\) { int i, j, k=0; for\(i=1; iExample Answer: \#include int print\_num\(int\); int main\(\) { int k; scanf\("%d", &k\); print\_num\(k\); return 0; } int print\_num\(int n\) { if\(n==1\) printf\("1 "\); else { print\_num\(n-1\); printf\("%d ", n\); } }

 3. Answer the following Questions. \(Any **Two**\). 2 × 10 = 20\(a\) You and one of your friend are given n chocolates from your teacher. Each chocolate’s weight is either 1 gram or 2 gram. Now divide all chocolates among you and your friend fairly so that the total weight of your chocolates is equal to the total weight of your friend’s chocolates. Now write a c program to check if it is possible to divide fairly. If possible print HAPPY otherwise print SAD. \[n and n number of weights are taken from input.\] Example: input: 4 1 2 2 1 output: HAPPY. **Example Answer:** \#include int main\(\) { int n, cnt, sum, i, j, x; scanf\("%d", &n\); cnt=0, sum=0; for\(i=0; iExample Answer: \#include int swap\(int \*a, int \*b\); int main\(\) { int n, i, j; scanf\("%d", &n\); int arr\[n\]; for\(i=0; iarr\[j-1\]\) swap\(arr+j-1, arr+j\); } } for\(i=0; i int fun\(int, int\); void foo\(int\(p\)\(int, int\), int\); int main\(\) { int num; printf\("Enter an integer number :"\); scanf\("%d",&num\); foo\(fun, num\); return 0; } int fun\(int n, int j\) { int count=0; if\( \(1&lt;&lt; j\) & n\) return j+1; else return 0; } void foo\(int\(p\)\(int, int\), int a\) { int i, b=1; for\(i=0; i &lt; 8; i++\) if\(\(p\) \(a, i\)!=0\) b=\(p\) \(a, i\); printf\("Total=%d\n=", b\); int arr\[b\]; for\(i=b-1; i&gt;=0; i--\) { if\(\(p\) \(a, i\)!=0\) printf\("1"\); else printf\("0"\); } } **Answer:** There five errors of the above code. The code without any error is written bellow, \#include int fun\(int, int\); void foo\(int\(\*p\)\(int, int\), int\); int main\(\) { int num; printf\("Enter an integer number :"\); scanf\("%d",&num\); foo\(fun, num\); return 0; } int fun\(int n, int j\) { int count=0; if\( \(1&lt;&lt; j\) & n\) return j+1; else return 0; } void foo\(int\(\*p\)\(int, int\), int a\) { int i, b=1; for\(i=0; i &lt; 8; i++\) if\(\(\*p\) \(a, i\)!=0\) b=\(\*p\) \(a, i\); printf\("Total=%d\n=", b\); int arr\[b\]; for\(i=b-1; i&gt;=0; i--\) { if\(\(\*p\) \(a, i\)!=0\) printf\("1"\); else printf\("0"\); } } For intput 109, output will be, Enter an integer number :109 Total = 7 = 1101101 for input -3, output will be, Enter an integer number :-3 Total = 8 = 11111101

 **Group B** 1. Answer the following Questions in short. \(Any **Five**\). 5 × 2 = 10

\(a\) Write the output of the following code \#include int main\(\) { if\(!printf\("CSE"\)\) printf\("SUST"\); else printf\("CSE"\); return 0; } **Answer:** CSECSE \(b\) Write the meaning of the following file types. “a”, “r”, “a+” What will be happen for file type “w” if a file with specified file-name currently exist? **Answer:** “a”: Open an existing file for appending. “r”: Open an existing file for reading only. “a+”: open an existing file for both reading and appending. For file type “w” if a file with specified file-name currently exist, then this file will be destroyed and a new file will created in its place. \(c\) Generate a function mod\(int a, intb\) to return the reminder of a/b without using % oparetor. **Example Answer:** int mod\(int a, int b\) { int ans =a/b; ans\*=b; return \(a-ans\); } \(d\) If there are any error of following code, mention this. Otherwise write the output of the code. \#include int main\(\) { int a=12, i=0; while\(a&gt;&gt;i\) { printf\("%d ", a&gt;&gt;=++i\); } } **Answer:** There are no error of this code. Output:6 1 \(e\) What will happen for this loop: for\(int m=10; m=10; m-=10\) \(i\) Run for never \(ii\) Will be an infinity loop \(iii\) Run for only one time \(iv\) Compilation error **Answer:** \(ii\) Will be an infinity loop. \(f\) write just two line without any if, else statement to find the maximum value between two integer value p and q; **Example Answer:** Int max; max=\(p&gt;=q\) ? p : q; \(g\) Write the output for the following code \#include int main\(\) { char s\[\]="53hj20!"; int w, \*p; p=&w; sscanf\(s, "%d", &w\); ++\*p---\*p; printf\("%d", w\); return 0; } **Answer:** 54 \(h\) Which of the following is not a ANSI C language keyword? \(i\) volatile \(ii\) enum \(iii\) goto \(iv\) function **Answer:** \(iv\) function 2. Answer the following Questions. \(Any **Four**\). 4 × 5 = 20

\(a\) Generate the following “triangle” of ‘\*’ by using nested loop. Do not simply write six line. Develop a formula to do this

```text
                *
              *   *
            *       *
          *           *
        *               *
      * * * * * * * * * * * 
```

 **Example Answer:** \#include int main\(\) { int n=6, i, j; for\(i=0; i 0 && i int k = 0; void foo\(\) { int i=0; static int x = 10; for \(; iAnswer: i = 0, x = 10 i = 1, x = 20 i = 2, x = 30 i = 0, x = 10 i = 1, x = 20 i = 2, x = 30 i = 0, x = 40 i = 1, x = 50 i = 2, x = 60 \(c\) Write a c program to calculate and display the lcm of two given \(input from user\) integer.\[Use the formula lcm=\(a\*b\)/gcd, here a and b are given integer. To do that, find gcd recursively\] **Example Answer:** \#include int find\_gcd\(int a, int b\) { if\(a==0\) return b; return find\_gcd\(b%a, a\); } int main\(\) { int a, b, gcd, lcm; while\(~scanf\("%d %d", &a, &b\)\){ gcd=find\_gcd\(a, b\); lcm=\(a\*b\)/gcd; printf\("%d\n", lcm\); } return 0; } \(d\) Suppose 30 days make a month and a year is made by 12 month. You are given a birth date and a present date of a man. Now generate a c program to calculate and display how old the man is.\[Input will be taken date, month, year respectively.\] Example: input: 16 9 2000 20 9 2020 output:Y-&gt;20 M-&gt;0 D-&gt;4 **Example Answer:** \#include int main\(\) { int bd, bm, by, pd, pm, py, td, tm, ty, d, m, y; scanf\("%d %d %d %d %d %d", &bd, &bm, &by, &pd, &pm, &py\); ty=py-by; tm=pm-bm; td=pd-bd; td+=ty\*360+tm\*30; y=td/360; td=td%360; m=td/30; d=td%30; printf\("Y-&gt;%d M-&gt;%d D-&gt;%d", y, m, d\); return 0; } \(e\) You are given an integer n\[from user\] the number of student. Make a user defined data type student where include the name\[no space in name and not greater than 20 charecter\] and id\[id is an integer\] of a student. Take the input name and id of all n students from user and print them. For example, if input will be 2 Nahin 65 Mehedi 17 then output will be, Name: Nahin; Id: 65; Name: Mehedi; Id: 17; Now write a c program to do this. **Example Answer:** \#include struct student{ char name\[20\]; int id; }; int main\(\) { int n, i, id; scanf\("%d", &n\); struct student stu\[n\]; for\(i=0; iExample Answer: \#include \#include int main\(\) { char u\[51\], v\[51\], \*p, \*q; while\(~scanf\("%s", u\)\){ p=u; q=v; for\(int i=0; i 3. Answer the following Questions. \(Any **Two**\). 2 × 10 = 20\(a\) For a given integer, make two different function called “prime” and “fibo” to determine and display that the number is a Prime Number or not and Fibonacci Number or not. Example: intput: 8 Output: 8 is not a Prime Number 8 is a Fibonacci Number **Example Answer:** \#include void prime\(int\); void fibo\(int\); int main\(\) { int n; while\(~scanf\("%d", &n\)\){ prime\(n\); fibo\(n\); } return 0; } void prime\(int n\) { int i; if\(nn\){ printf\("%d is not a Fibonacci Number\n", n\); return; } } printf\("%d is not a Fibonacci Number\n", n\); } \(b\) Add the numbers 3, 7, 2, 10, 11, 6 one by one on a singly linked list. Then delete 2 from this list. Use two different function named “insert” and “deleteVal” to add and delete respectively. Use for loop to add those numbers. After this, use another function “printlist” to print the list before and after delete 2. **Example Answer:** \#include struct node{ int val; struct node \*next; } \*start; void insert\(int val\) { struct node \*cur=\(struct node\*\) malloc\(sizeof\(struct node\)\), \*temp; cur-&gt;val=val; cur-&gt;next=NULL; if\(start==NULL\) {start=cur; return;} temp=start; while\(temp-&gt;next!=NULL\) temp=temp-&gt;next; temp-&gt;next=cur; } void printlist\(\) { struct node \*temp; temp=start; printf\("List: "\); do{ printf\("%d ", temp-&gt;val\); temp=temp-&gt;next; } while\(temp!=NULL\); puts\(""\); } void deleteVal\(int val\){ struct node \*prev=start, \*temp=start; while\(temp!=NULL\) { if\(start-&gt;val==val\) { start=start-&gt;next;prev=start, temp=start; } if\(temp-&gt;val==val\){ prev-&gt;next=temp-&gt;next; } prev=temp;temp=prev-&gt;next; } } int main\(\) { start=NULL; int i, arr\[\]={3, 7, 2, 10, 11, 6}; for\(i=0; iExample Answer: \#include \#include int main\(\) { char s\[100\]; while\(~scanf\("%s", s\)\){ int arr\[26\], i, cnt=0; for\(i=0; i

 - End -

* [x] I am declaring that, the above work is my own work. Whatever added above

  except the template is the result of my brainstorming. I also understand that

  submitting work that isn’t my own may result in permanent failure of this course

  as well as the whole current semester.

